#lore

# Appendix C: Rebellion in [[Illyria]]
The details we got from [[Isabel]]’s memory concerning the rebellion in Illyria were fragmentary, but accord with what we learned from our other subjects. 

The group known as [[the Illyrian Brotherhood]] began in the 870s under the leadership of [[Aran Tasleem]]. He was then provincial governor of the city. The movement was small, centered around a few members of ancient Illyrian noble lineage that had secured appointment in the administration and army. Their aim was the city’s liberation. In 887 their leader Aran disappeared and was replaced by his wife, a scholar and administrator named [[Helene]]. The brotherhood spent the next few years working their members into key posts, receiving funds from wealthy families, and manipulating supply lines to stockpile weapons and other munitions in the city. It was not until 895 that they had their moment arrived.

Ordinary imperial doctrine mandates that troops from a given province are stationed abroad so that loyalties will not be split, but heavy casualties in the war against [[The Holy League]] forced the seventh and ninth legions, composed of mostly Illyrians to be called back to Terros and stationed in Illyria to recover. Rebellion in the centerlands had disrupted grain production resulting in general unrest in the city.

On the 5th of April that year, an ex-Illyrian soldier who had been impoverished because of the famine, was arrested for stealing grain. It is an Imperial custom that those who work for the state are subject to more extreme punishment than civilians. Because he was a soldier the Imperial Justicar of the city had him burned alive. The citizens and soldiers flew into an outrage. An angry mob of citizens advanced on the courthouse. Helene and the officers of the brotherhood maneuvered the cities’ defenses out of their way so there was nothing to stop the crowd. They marched calling for the Justicar’s blood. When they reached the courthouse, with no other help, the Imperial Knights opened fire. Hundreds were slain. Helene and the other officers declared the Justicar and the other Imperial administrators guilty of violating the law and by emergency military edict declared themselves in charge of a provisional government until justice was done. A battle for control of the city then began. The Illyrian legions went over to the side of the brotherhood instead of defending the imperial governors and so the battle ended swiftly. The Netherese were either slain or fled the city. 

After a few days of violence the Netherese flag was taken down and replaced by an Illyrian rose signaling victory for the rebels. Helene and the Brotherhood convened an assembly and allowed all citizens to air grievances against the Empire. After a few days the assembly declared Helene the provisional governor and sent the Emperor a list of demands including a right to Illyrian self-rule. The Emperor did not send a response. He took command of the legions that prepared to recapture the city. By the middle of the summer the city was under siege by land and sea. The city, already suffering from a grain shortage, became desperate as the siege set in. The walls were too strong for artillery, but shots fired over them wrecked the city. Many in the rebellion’s inner circle had begun to think their plan a mistake, and begged Helene to surrender, but she refused, intent on victory. The officers in the brotherhood were resolute in their allegiance and so the rebellion continued and the city suffered.

The end came when [[Alexios]], Helene’s son and then only 13, went into his mother’s private chambers, allowed through by the guard. Isabel does not know the details of what happened between them, but it appears he slew her with a smuggled knife. Without her leadership, the rebellion came to an end. The faction in favor of surrender took over, the city’s gates were opened, and the rebels put to death.

The original leader of the rebels, long disappeared, was then outed as a member of the Speakers. So called because when the books of sorcery were destroyed, the mages who survived were reputed to have committed them all to memory and transmitted their contents orally. She doesn’t know anything about his wherabouts.