#lore

Continuing with a summary of the story of [[the Kingdom of the Dawn]]:

With [[The Order of the Magi|the Council of Magi]] leading the Twin Assemblies the Realm prospered for a time. The Kingdom expanded its power and influence with [[Telam]] at the helm of state and [[Casia]] at his side. To the greatest sailor in the land, [[Lana]], [[Telam]] gave the sword [[Carina]]. [[Lana]], who, at the command of [[the Redmoon Marines]], would come to be known as Lana Stormlord, embarked on many voyages of discovery across the sea to foreign lands. The law and administration of the Realm was entrusted into the wise and steady hands of [[Nale]], who promulgated a great code of laws and oversaw the prosecution of the ills of the community. The craft of war making was mastered by the Realm’s greatest warrior, [[Vitellius]]. The great general, at the command of one thousand horse, extended the dominion of the Magi into the South by conquering the lands of [[Caldea]]. [[Ezrien]] assumed wardenship of the forests, leading men west into the dark center of the continent, where he mediated disputes between the barbarian tribes, Elves, and encroaching settlers. Thus passed many years under the stewardship of [[Telam]] and the order of the Magi: Through the fires of war brought by [[Vitellius]], the founding of colonies by [[Lana]] and [[Miran]], and the sweet words and negotiations of [[Casia]] and [[Aneius]], the wealth, power, and prestige of [[the Kingdom of the Dawn]] stretched across the whole extent of the Eastern and Southern parts of [[Terros]] and across many of its coasts and islands.

But conflict soon arose in disparate parts of the Realm. First, while [[Telam's Castle]] lay dormant near the capital, the Master of All Making himself gone on an errand. [[Casia]] went inside. While [[Telam]] made the great blades to wield power over the Heavens on [[Terros]], eight only had been made; no blade was made for the Master Mage of [[Ishivan]]. In his absence, [[Casia]] wielded the instruments of her former master, and crafted herself [[Vespa]], the Sword of Knowledge. Upon learning of this treachery, a fight began between [[Telam]] and [[Casia]] which lasted ten days and ten nights as they fought outside the capital atop Telam’s high flying castle.
But neither could best the other. Remembering their former friendship, a compromise was reached. [[Casia]] would be exiled to [[Tel Dorac]] across the Sea. She left for [[Tel Dorac]], accompanied by her friend [[Aneius]], and they did not return for many years.

In the absence of the Master Mage, [[Telam]] ruled alone. He retreated further and further into isolation, ruling by edicts proclaimed from high in his castle. His isolation continued for five years until he was suddenly married to a woman named [[Telina]], a southerner from the conquered lands of [[Caldea]]. To them a son was born, a prince named Cerinthus. But he was more commonly known as [[Henly]], a nickname given to him as a child in the army camps of the South.

The realm was mostly peaceful, but mounting skirmishes with the Elves in the forests and a rebellion in [[Caldea]], which had to be reconquered, put strain on the leadership of [[Telam]].

But tragedy soon again struck the Realm. [[Ezrien]] had married an Elven woman and begun to try and halt the advance of settlers. [[Ezrien]] and [[Rosaniya]], as she was known by men, were soon known as enemies of the Kingdom of Men, and soon war would follow. At a meeting of Elves and Men to negotiate a peace over a dispute of land, the settlers betrayed the Elves, and the representatives of the Elves were slain, [[Rosaniya]] among them. [[Ezrien]] said nothing upon hearing the news. In silence left the company of his friends and companions and travelled deep into [[the Ironwoods]]. He returned one month later atop [[Nicephoros]], King of the Dragons, and was hence known as [[Ezrien]] Dragonlord, and a great war between elves and men began. For the first time, the Elves organized themselves into great armies, commanded by a new King of the Elves, [[Ezrien]]. With this great Elven army approaching settled lands, [[Telam]] sent his son and the General [[Cadmus]] of [[Caldea]] into the [[Bezen]] to conquer the [[God of Winter]], and bind him to the service of Man. But the passage was long, and the army of [[Cadmus]] and [[Henly]] would never return. So the war progressed without the aid of the winter God.

At the outbreak of the war, the Empire of Dawn is said to have maintained over one hundred thousand men at arms. Within three months of fighting, the Lord of Dragons had reduced that number to ash. By the Dragon’s Fire and the fury of the Elves the cities of [[The Centerlands]] were laid to ruin. The kingdom buckled, on the brink of collapse, but instead of taking up the defense of the Realm, [[Telam]] had retreated to his castle. He spoke to no one; the only noise from the castle was a constant spellcasting.

The Elven host marched through [[The Centerlands]] to [[Caldea]]. There, [[Vitellius]] met [[Ezrien]] and his host of Dragons in battle. The Flame of Attica, immune to the flames of the Dragon [[Nicephoros]], slew the King of Dragons and smote his ruin into the fields of the East. [[Ezrien]] took up [[Lacerta]], sword of the Forest, and the [[Codex de Natura]], transforming himself into a great Phoenix. He casted [[Vitellius]] into the Sea and the city of [[Caldea]], Jewel of the East, was no more. [[Vitellius]] lived only by the power of Lana, who saved him from the watery depths. The Dragonlord [[Ezrien]] then flew to the seat of Attish power, the castle of [[Telam]], and with the Sun
setting, was reduced to mortal form. In the ruins of [[Caldea]], the Elves prayed for their valiant warlord. They witness by air the return of [[Casia]], fast making towards [[Telam]].

Standing below Telam’s high flying castle, the elven warlord called forth the Master of Making, decrying him king of slaves and defiler of the earth. [[Telam]] soon emerged, and [[Ezrien]] readied himself to slay his great foe and reduce the world of men to ash.

But it was not to be so. No great battle was fought on the Fields of [[Acadia]], for [[Casia]], the master mage, had arrived. The mage had returned from [[Tel Dorac]]. She reminded [[Ezrien]] of their long friendship, and they talked for many days, all while [[Telam]] watched from the high castle. [[Ezrien]] then returned to his Elven host. Bidding them to lay down their weapons, to return to their way of life. He led them into the West, far from Telam, onto the shores of [[The Ceon Sea]], to live a life away from the Realm of Men. [[Telam]] and [[Casia]] were thus reunited, and for her saving the land, [[Casia]] was once again brought into the Kingdom of Attica. The Nine who had once ruled the land would fight again the same banner, when [[Telam]] had gathered them all for a last great war against [[The God of Time|Time]]. But this would be the last time for such a reunion, and the last war of the Kingdom of the Dawn. The armies of [[Attica]] marched to [[The World-Soul|the Soul of the World]] to confront the Lord of Time. The Master Mage [[Casia]] used the [[Vespa|Sword of Knowledge]] to channel [[The World-Soul]], and bring forth to [[Terros]] [[The God of Time]], and [[Telam]] vanquished him, burying him deep below the [[Isle of Faith]], beginning the long wait of Time’s Sleep. In the battle two Magi fell: [[Vitellius]] and [[Telam]] would never again see the sun’s shine.

After the battle, [[Eudoxus]] went to the capital, [[Nale]] across the Sea to the South, and the rest of the Magi to the Isle of [[Caeta]], an Isle across [[The Ceon Sea]]. In the absence of their leaders, the weary Kingdom collapsed. A great madness overtook the lands of [[Terros]]. Towns lay abandoned, farmland untilled, law codes forgotten. North of the Channel, it would not be until the rebirth of [[Illyria]] that the lands of Men would boast a great Kingdom. And as for the Master Mage, it is said she was finally laid to rest at the city of [[Vejlan]] in [[The Pale]], in the fourth millennium, where the capital of Attica had once laid.